# Bike-Sharing-Prediction
In this project, neural networks are used to predict daily bike rental ridership.



**Summary**

Bike sharing systems are new generation of traditional bike rentals where whole process from membership, rental and return 
back has become automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return 
back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of 
over 500 thousands bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, 
environmental and health issues. 

Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by
these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration
of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into
a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important
events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.
(Please refer the readme.txt file available in Bike-Sharing-Dataset folder for details about dataset)


**Running the code**

1. git clone the repository and navigate to the directory in terminal
    (git clone https://github.com/omcaaaar/Bike-Sharing-Prediction.git)
    (cd Bike-Sharing-Prediction)
    
2. Create conda environment
    (conda create --name <ENV_NAME> python=3)
or you can use the one you already have.

3. Activate the environment
    (source activate <ENV_NAME>)
    
4. Install the packages
    (conda install numpy matplotlib pandas jupyter notebook)
    
5. Open jupyter notebook and run the cells in 'Your_first_neural_network.ipynb'
    (jupyter notebook Your_first_neural_network.ipynb)
